---
title: DELL P2415Q 4K Monitor Recommended
tags:
  - Hardware
id: '183'
categories:
  - - Technology
date: 2015-08-26 16:52:57
languages:
  zh-CN: https://www.guozeyu.com/2015/07/eye-fi/
---

4K, 23.8-inch screen. Features a Retina effect, excellent color reproduction, and print-like clarity. Bought one recently and it works great. [Buy Authentic on Amazon](https://www.amazon.cn/gp/product/B00S7WRWL8?tag=ze3kr-23)

## What is 4K

A 4K screen usually refers to a display that is four times the resolution of 1080p (that is, twice as wide and twice as tall). The difference between the 4K screen and 1080p resolution is equivalent to the difference between the iPhone 4 and its previous generation. Anyone who has used it knows that the difference between the iPhone 4's Retina screen and the non-Retina screen is very obvious. Especially the displayed text becomes clearer and sharper. However, since the display is much larger than that of a mobile phone, if a display larger than 19 inches is to achieve the Retina effect, it will require a super high resolution of 4K.
<!-- more -->

After actual use, the 4K screen did not disappoint me, especially the display of text and pictures was excellent.

## P2415Q Monitor

This is a mid-range 4K monitor, capable of drawing, photo processing, and more. The 16:9 widescreen, 60 Hz refresh rate and minimum 6 ms latency make it a great gaming screen too, with a wide range of features.

### Compatibility

If you use an HDMI port on this monitor, you can only go up to 3840 x 2160 @ 30 Hz, only computers with DisplayPort ports are **likely** able to support 3840 x 2160 @ 60 Hz. A MiniDP to DisplayPort cable is included with the device. 3840 x 2160 @ 30 Hz is supported on the latest models of all series of Macs, and 3840 x 2160 @ 60 Hz on the latest models of MacBook Pros with Retina screens, Mac Pros and 5K iMacs (requires MST enabled for this display) Function). In order to achieve the Retina effect, the display needs to be enlarged. It is well supported under Mac, and almost all third-party apps can support Retina. Windows 8.1 and newer versions on the PC also support enlarged display, but unfortunately not many third-party apps support Retina, and these apps will have a jagged effect, which is not so clear. Especially if you're using a Retina Mac, the display doesn't feel too different from the original display as an extended screen. But if you use a Retina Mac with a 1080p screen, you'll noticeably blur the text on the 1080p screen.

### About the USB Hub Function of this Monitor

This monitor can be used as a USB Hub. The specific use method is to connect a USB output port on the computer to the monitor. There are 4 USB 3.0 output ports on the monitor to connect any USB-based devices, so the computer can establish with these devices. connect. Such as: hard disk, mobile phone, mouse, keyboard, network card, etc., it is equivalent to connecting directly to the computer, which can save a USB Hub. A USB 3.0 - Type A cable is included with the device to the USB input on the monitor. I haven't encountered any problems with my Mac in actual use, and I don't have to install any drivers. Of course, the port on the monitor can also charge any USB device. What's even more amazing is that when the computer is off or the monitor is not connected to the computer's USB port, and the monitor is turned on or in standby mode, the 4 USB ports on the monitor are still available. Ability to charge the device. (By default, no power is supplied to the device when the monitor is in standby, you can enable this function in the settings)

### Screen Parameters

| Parameter name | Corresponding value |
| ------ | ------ |
| Screen Diagonal Size | 60.47 cm (23.80”) |
| Aspect Ratio | Widescreen (16:9) |
| Panel Type | IPS |
| Best Resolution | 3840 x 2160 @ 60 Hz |
| Brightness | Up to 300 cd/㎡ |
| Response time | 6 ms minimum |
| Colors | 1.07 billion colors |

### Interface

#### Input

1. DisplayPort
2. Mini DisplayPort
3. HDMI (MHL)
4. USB 3.0 (used as USB Hub)

#### Output

1. USB 3.0 x 4
2. DisplayPort (for daisy chaining)

### About Screen Size

I think the pixel density of a 4K screen around 24 inches is basically close to that of a Mac with a Retina screen, and I would prefer a 24-inch 4K monitor. A 27" would require 5K or higher. At present, there are very few interfaces capable of transmitting 5K resolution, so a 24-inch 4K is the most suitable choice.

### Others

* [Instructions for use of this monitor](https://static.bhphotovideo.com/lit_files/104995.pdf)
* [More about 4K screen support on Mac](https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT202856)
